WASM Guide (#662)
zcash/halo2: book/src/user/wasm-port.md

# Using halo2 in WASM

Since halo2 is written in Rust, you can compile it to WebAssembly (wasm), which will allow you to use the prover and verifier for your circuits in browser applications. This tutorial takes you through all you need to know to compile your circuits to wasm.

> Throughout this tutorial, we will follow the repository for [Zordle](https://github.com/nalinbhardwaj/zordle) for reference, one of the first known webapps based on Halo 2 circuits. Zordle is ZK Wordle, where the circuit takes as advice values the player's input words and the player's share grid (the grey, yellow and green squares) and verifies that they match correctly. Therefore, the proof verifies that the player knows a "preimage" to the output share sheet, which can then be verified using just the ZK proof.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughout this tutorial, we will follow the repository for [Zordle](https://github.com/nalinbhardwaj/zordle) for reference, one of the first known webapps based on Halo 2 circuits. Zordle is ZK [Wordle](https://www.nytimes.com/games/wordle/index.html), where the circuit takes as advice values the player's input words and the player's share grid (the grey, yellow and green squares) and verifies that they match correctly. Therefore, the proof verifies that the player knows a "preimage" to the output share sheet, which can then be verified using just the ZK proof.
```

The first step is to create functions in Rust that will interface with the browser application. In the case of a prover, this will typically input some version of the advice and instance data, use it to generate a complete witness, and then output a proof. In the case of a verifier, this will typically input a proof and some version of the instance, and then output a boolean indicating whether the proof verified correctly or not.

In the case of Zordle, this code is contained in [wasm.rs](https://github.com/nalinbhardwaj/zordle/blob/main/circuits/src/wasm.rs), and consists of two primary functions:

### Prover

```rust
#[wasm_bindgen]
pub async fn prove_play(final_word: String, words_js: JsValue, params_ser: JsValue) -> JsValue {
  // Steps:
  // - Deserialise function parameters
  // - Generate the instance and advice columns using the words
  // - Instantiate the circuit and generate the witness
  // - Generate the proving key from the params
  // - Create a proof
}
```

While the specific inputs and their serialisations will depend on your circuit and webapp set up, it's useful to note the format in the specific case of Zordle since your use case will likely be similar:

> This function takes as input the `final_word` that the user aimed for, and the words they attempted to use (in the form of `words_js`). It also takes as input the parameters for the circuit, which are serialized in `params_ser`. More to follow on that later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function takes as input the `final_word` that the user aimed for, and the words they attempted to use (in the form of `words_js`). It also takes as input the parameters for the circuit, which are serialized in `params_ser`. We will expand on this in the `Params`_ section below.
```

> Note that the function parameters are passed in `wasm_bindgen` compatible formats: `String` and `JsValue`. The `JsValue` type is a type from the [`Serde`](https://serde.rs) library. You can find much more details about this type and how to use it in the documentation [here](https://rustwasm.github.io/wasm-bindgen/reference/arbitrary-data-with-serde.html#serializing-and-deserializing-arbitrary-data-into-and-from-jsvalue-with-serde).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the function parameters are passed in `wasm_bindgen`-compatible formats: `String` and `JsValue`. The `JsValue` type is a type from the [`Serde`](https://serde.rs) library. You can find much more details about this type and how to use it in the documentation [here](https://rustwasm.github.io/wasm-bindgen/reference/arbitrary-data-with-serde.html#serializing-and-deserializing-arbitrary-data-into-and-from-jsvalue-with-serde).
```
